**Global Seawater Oxygen-18 Database**https://data.giss.nasa.gov/o18data/ref.html(Mar 1, 2026)**Data Acknowledgements:**Global seawater isotope data (δ18O and δD) are provided by the **NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies (GISS)**. - *Source:* Schmidt, G.A., et al. (1999), Global Seawater Oxygen-18 Database v1.22. - *Link:* [https://data.giss.nasa.gov/o18data/](https://data.giss.nasa.gov/o18data/)**References**Abrahamsen, E. P., M. P. Meredith, K. K. Falkner, S. Torres-Valdes, M. J. Leng, M. B. Alkire, S. Bacon, S. W. Laxon, I. Polyakov, and V. Ivanov. Tracer-derived freshwater composition of the Siberian continental shelf and slope following the extreme Arctic summer of 2007. Geophys. Res. Lett., 36, L07602, doi:10.1029/2009GL037341, 2009.Aharon, P., and J. Chappell, Oxygen isotopes, sea-level changes and the temperature history of a coral-reef environment in New Guinea over the last 105 years, Palaeogeogr. Palaeoclimatol. Palaeoecol., 56, 337-379, 1986.Andrie, C., and L. Merlivat, Contribution of deuterium, O-18, He-3 and tritium isotopic data to the study of the Red-Sea circulation, Oceanol. Acta, 12, 165-174, 1989.Anders, T-M. Dissertation, 1997. Data accessed from Anders, T-M; Sarnthein, Michael (2000): Stable oxygen isotopes in opal and seawater, PANGAEA, doi:10.1594/PANGAEA.56296Andrus, C.F.T, D. E. Crowe, D. H. Sandweiss, E. J. Reitz, C. S. Romanek. Record of Mid-Holocene Sea Surface Temperatures in Peru, Science, 295, 1508-1511, 2002.Archambeau, A.-S., C. Pierre, A. Poisson, and B. Schauer, Distributions of oxygen and carbon stable isotopes and CFC-12 in the water masses of the Southern Ocean at 30oE from South Africa to Antarctica: Results of the CIVA1 cruise, J. Mar. Syst., 17, 25-38, 1998.Ashi, H., M. Wang, R. Gao, and H. Ying, A preliminary investigation on the composing characteristics of oxygen isotope of the seawater from the Tropical West Pacific, Oceanologia et limnologia sinica, 25, 416-421, 1994.Ashi, H., H. Ying, W. Qingchun, and K. Jingtang, The distribution characteristics of oxygen isotope in the northeastern South China Sea in the summer of 1994, Tropic Oceanol., 16, 82-90, 1997.Azetsu-Scott, K., and F. C. Tan, Oxygen isotope studies from Iceland to an East Greenland fjord; behaviour of glacial meltwater plume, Mar. Chem., 56, 239-251, 1997.Bauch, D., P. Schlosser, and R. G. Fairbanks, Freshwater balance and the sources of deep and bottom waters in the Arctic Ocean inferred from the distribution of H218O, Prog. Oceanogr., 35, 53-80, 1995.Bauch, D., H. Erlenkeuser, V. Stanovoy, J. Simstich and R. F. Spielhagen. Freshwater distribution and brine waters in the southern Kara Sea in summer 1999 as depicted by d18O results. In: Proceedings in Marine Science, Siberian River Run-off in the Kara Sea: Characterization, Quantification, Variability and Environmental Significance, R.Stein, K. Fahl, D. K. Fütterer, E. Galimov (Eds.), 6, 73-90. 2002Bauch, D., H. Erlenkeuser, and N. Andersen. Water mass processes on Arctic shelves as revealed from d18O of H2O. Global and Planetary Change, 48, 165-174, 2005.Bedard, P., C. Hillaire-Marcel, and P. Page, 18O modelling of freshwater inputs in Baffin Bay and Canadian Arctic coastal waters, Nature, 293, 287-289, 1981.Benway, H and A. Mix. Oxygen isotopes, upper-ocean salinity, and precipitation sources in the eastern tropical Pacific, EPSL, 224, 493-507, 2004.Bigg, G.R. and E.J. Rohling. An oxygen isotope data set for marine water. J. Geophys. Res., 105, 8527-8535, 2000.Boiseau, M., A. juillet Leclerc, P. Yiou, B. Salvat, P. Isdale, and M. Guillaume, Atmospheric and oceanic evidence of ENSO events in the south central Pacific Ocean from coral stable isotope records over the last 137 years, Paleoceanography, 13, 671-685, 1998.Brezgunov, V. S., Study of water exchange in sea-river water mixing zones using the isotopic composition-salinity diagram., Intl. J. Rad. Applic. Instrument. E, Nucl. Geophys., 4, 71-77, 1990.Brezgunov, V. S., V. Debolskii, V. V. Nechaev, V. I. Ferronskii, and T. V. Yakimova, Characteristics of the formation of the oxygen isotopic composition and salinity upon mixing of sea and river waters in the Barents and Kara seas, Water Resour. (USSR), 9, 335-344, 1983.CIVA2. NODC ID:35-9439 (WOCE Cruise) (http://www.nodc.noaa.gov).Cole, J. E., Interannual-decadal variability in tropical climate systems: Stable isotope records and general circulation model experiments, Ph.D. thesis, Columbia University, 1992.Cooper, L. W., T. E. Whitledge, J. M. Grebmeier, and T. Weingartner, The nutrient, salinity and stable oxygen isotope composition of Bering and Chukchi Seas waters in and near the Bering Strait, J. Geophys. Res., 102, 12,563-12,573, 1997.Cooper, L. W., G. F. Cota, L. R. Pomeroy, J. M. Grebmeier, and T. E. Whitledge, Modification of NO, PO, and NO/PO during flow across the Bering and Chukchi Shelves: Implications for use as Arctic water mass tracers, J. Geophys. Res., 104, 7827-7836, 1999.Cooper, L.W., R. Benner, J.W. McClelland, B.J. Peterson, R.M. Holmes, P.A. Raymond, D.A. Hansell, J.M. Grebmeier, and L.A. Codispoti, Linkages among runoff, dissolved organic carbon, and the stable oxygen isotope composition of seawater and other water mass indicators in the Arctic Ocean. J. Geophys. Res., 110, G02013, doi:10.1029/2005JG000031, 2005Cox, K. A., J. D. Stanford, A. J. McVicar, E. J. Rohling, K. J. Heywood, S. Bacon, M. Bolshaw, P. A. Dodd, S. De la Rosa, and D. Wilkinson (2010), Interannual variability of Arctic sea ice export into the East Greenland Current, J. Geophys. Res., 115, C12063, doi:10.1029/2010JC006227.Craig, H., and L. I. Gordon, Deuterium and oxygen 18 variations in the ocean and the marine atmosphere, in Stable Isotopes in Oceanographic Studies and Paleotemperatures, edited by E. Tongiorgi, pp. 9-130, Cons. Naz. di Rech., Spoleto, Italy, 1965.Delaygue, G., Bard E, Rollion C., Jouzel J., Stievenard M., Duplessy J.-C. and Ganssen G., Surface Water Measurements of Salinity and Oxygen-18 in the Northern Indian Ocean, J. Geophys. Res., 106, 4565, 2001.Duplessy, J.-C., Note preliminaire sur les variations de la composition isotopique des eaux superficelles de l'Océan Indien: La relation 18O-Salinité, C. R. Acad. Sc. Paris, 271, 1075-1078, 1970.Duplessy, J.-C., A. W. H. Bé, and P. L. Blanc, Oxygen and carbon isotopic composition and biogeographic distribution of planktonic foraminifera in the Indian Ocean, Palaeogeogr. Palaeoclimatol. Palaeoecol., 33, 9-46, 1981.Duplessy, J.-C., L. Labeyrie, A. Juillet-Leclerc, F. Maitre, J. Duprat, and M. Sarnthein, Surface salinity reconstruction of the North Atlantic Ocean during the Last Glacial Maximum, Oceanol. Acta, 14, 311-324, 1991.Ehhalt, D. H., On the deuterium-salinity relationship in the Baltic sea, Tellus, 21, 429-435, 1969.Eicken, H., Deriving modes and rates of ice growth in the Weddell Sea from microstructural, salinity, and stable isotope data, in Antarctic Sea Ice: Physical Processes, Interactions and Variability, no. 74 in Antarctic Research Series, pp. 89-122, AGU, 1998.Ekwurzel, B., P. Schlosser, R. A. Mortlock, R. G. Fairbanks and J. H. Swift, River runoff, sea ice meltwater and Pacific water distribution and mean residence times in the Arctic Ocean, J. Geophys. Res., 106, 9075-9092, 2001.Epstein, S., and T. Mayeda, Variation of O18 content of waters from natural sources, Geochim. Cosmochim. Acta, 4, 213-224, 1953.Fairbanks, R. G., M. Sverdlove, R. Free, P. H. Wiebe, and A. W. H. Bé, Vertical distribution and isotopic fractionation of living planktonic foraminfera from the Panama Basin, Nature, 298, 841-844, 1982.Fairbanks, R. G., C. D. Charles, and J. D. Wright, Origin of global meltwater pulses, in Radiocarbon After Four Decades: An Interdisciplinary Perspective , edited by R. E. Taylor, A. Long, and R. S. Kra, pp. 473-500, Springer-Verlag, New York, 1992.Ferronskii, V. I. and others, Investigation of the distribution of oxygen-18 and tritium in waters of the Barents and Kara seas for the prognosis of hydrologic changes in the estuarine areas of the Ob' River and Kara and Pechora seas (in Russian), Tech. Rep., 101 pp., Inst. Water Stud., USSR Acad. Sci., Moscow, 1978.Frank, M. Spurenstoffuntersuchungen zur zikrulation im Eurasischen Becken des Nordpolarmeeres, Ph.D Thesis, Ruprecht Karls Univ. Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany, 1996.Friedman, I and B. Schoen and J. Harris. The Deuterium Content in Arctic Sea Ice, J. Geophys. Res., 66, 1861-1864, 1961.Frew, R. D., K. J. Heywood, and P. F. Dennis, Oxygen isotope study of water masses in the Princess Elizabeth Trough, Antarctica, Mar. Chem., 49, 141-153, 1995.Frew, R. D., P. F. Dennis, K. J. Heywood, M. P. Meredith and S. M. Boswell, The oxygen isotope composition of water masses in the northern North Atlantic, Deep Sea Res., 47, 2265-2286, 2000.Frohlich, K., J. Grabczak, and K. Rozanski, Deuterium and oxygen-18 in the Baltic Sea, Chem. Geol., 72, 77-83, 1988.Ganssen, G., and D. Kroon, Evidence for Red Sea surface circulation from oxygen isotopes of modern surface waters and planktonic foraminiferal tests, Paleoceanography, 6, 73-82, 1991.Gat, J. R., A. Shemesh, E. Tziperman, A. Hecht, D. Georgopoulos, and O. Basturk, The stable isotope composition of waters of the eastern Mediterranean Sea, J. Geophys. Res., 101, 6441-6451, 1996.Gillikin, D.P., Geochemistry of Marine Bivalve Shells: the potential for paleoenvironmental reconstruction. Ph.D. thesis. Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Belgium, 258 p. 2005.Gillikin, D. P., F. De Ridder, H. Ulens, M. Elskens, E. Keppens, W. Baeyens and F. Dehairs. Assessing the reproducibility and reliability of estuarine bivalve shells (Saxidomus giganteus) for sea surface temperature reconstruction: implications for paleoclimate studies. Palaeogeogr. Palaeoclimatol. Palaeoecol., 228, 70-85, 2005.Grebmeier, J. M., L. W. Cooper, and M. J. DeNiro, Oxygen isotopic composition of bottom seawater and tunicate cellulose used as indicators of water masses in the northern Bering and Chukchi Seas, Limnol. Oceanogr., 35, 1182-1195, 1990.Grossman, E. L., Stable isotope fractionation in live benthic formainfera from the southern California borderland, Palaeogeogr. Palaeoclimatol. Palaeoecol., 47, 301-327, 1984.Grossman, E. L. and T. L. Ku, Oxygen and carbon isotope fractionation in biogenic aragonite: Temperature effects, Chem. Geol., 59, 59-74, 1986.Grottoli A. G., Adkins J. F., Panero W., Reaman D., Moots K., Growth rates, stable oxygen isotopes (d18O), and strontium (Sr/Ca) composition in two species of Pacific sclerosponges (Acanthocheatetes wellsi and Astroclera willeyana) with d18O calibration and application to paleoceanography. J. Geophys. Res., 115, C06008, doi: 10.1029/2009JC005586Hillaire-Marcel, C., and A. Rochon, Cruise reports: CSS Hudson 90-13, 91-045, Tech. rep., GEOTOP, UQAM, Montreal, Canada, 1991.Horibe, Y., and N. Ogura, Deuterium content as a parameter of water mass in the ocean, J. Geophys. Res., 73, 1239-1249, 1968.Israelson, C., and B. Buchardt, Strontium and oxygen isotope composition of East Greenland rivers and surface waters: Implication for palaeoenvironmental interpretation, PPP, 153, 93-104, 1999.Jacobs, S., H. Hellmer and A. Jenkins, Antarctic ice sheet melting in the Southeast Pacific, Geophys. Res. Lett., 23, 957-960, 1996.Jacobs S.S., Mele P.A., Smethie W.M., and Mortlock M.A., Summer oceanographic measurements near the Mertz Polynya (140-150E) on N.B. Palmer cruise 00-08. Cruise report. 2005. http://www.nodc.noaa.gov/archive/arc0001/0001262/01-version/about/mdr.pdfKallel, N., La composition isotopique des eaux du secteur indien de l'océan austral, Master's thesis, Université de Paris Sud, 1985.Kang, D.-J., C. S. Chung, L. W. Cooper, C. Y. Kang, Y. D. Kim, and G. H. Hong, Oxygen-18 and nutrients in the surface waters of the Bransfield Strait, Antarctica during austral summer 1990/1, J. Oceanol. Soc. Korea, 27, 250-258, 1992.Kang, D.-J., C. S. Chung, S. H. Kim, G. H. Hong, and K.-R. Kim, Oxygen isotope characteristics of seawater in the Yellow Sea, La Mer (Tokyo), 32, 279-284, 1994.Karr, J.D. and W.J. Showers. Stable oxygen and hydrogen isotopic tracers in Amazon shelf waters during AMASSEDS. Oceanol. Acta., 25: 71-78. 2002.Khatiwala, S. P., R. G. Fairbanks, and R. W. Houghton, Freshwater sources to the coastal ocean off northeastern North America: Evidence from H218O/H216O, J. Geophys. Res., 104, 18,241-18,255, 1999.Khim, B.-K. and D. E. Krantz, Oxygen isotopic identity of the Delaware Coastal Current, J. Geophys. Res., 101, 16,509-16,514, 1996.Kipphut, G. W., Glacial meltwater input to the Alaska Coastal Current: Evidence from oxygen isotope measurements, J. Geophys. Res., 95, 5177-5181, 1990.K. E. Kohfeld, R. G. Fairbanks, S. L. Smith and I. D. Walsh, Neogloboquadrina pachyderma (sinistral coiling) as paleoceanographic tracers in polar oceans: Evidence from Northeast Water Polynya plankton tows, sediment traps, and surface sediments, Paleoceanography, 11, 679-699, 1996.Laube-L'Enfant, E. 1996. Thesis(?) (data via Gilles Reverdin, LOCEAN, France)Leder, J. L., P. K. Swart, A. M. Szmant, and R. E. Dodge, The origin of variations in the isotopic record of scleractinian corals: I. Oxygen, Geo. Chimica. Acta, 60, 2857-2870, 1996.Letolle, R., J. M. Martin, A. J. T. and. V. V. Gordeev, S. Gusarova, and L. S. Sidorov, 18O abundance and dissolved silicate in the Lena delta and the Laptev Sea (Russia), Mar. Chem., 43, 47-64, 1993.Lowenstam, H. A., and S. Epstein, On the origin of sedimentary aragonite needles of the Great Bahama Bank, J. Geol., 65, 364-375, 1957.Macdonald, R. W., and E. C. Carmack, Age of Canadian Basin deep waters: A way to estimate primary production for the Arctic Ocean, Science, 254, 1348-1350, 1991.Macdonald, R. W., D. W. Paton, E. C. Carmack, and A. Omstedt, The freshwater budget and under-ice spreading of Mackenzie River water in the Canadian Beaufort Sea based on salinity and 18O/16O measurements in water and ice, J. Geophys. Res., 100, 895-919, 1995.Macdonald, R. W., E. C. Carmack, E. C. McLaughlin, K. K. Falkner, and J. H. Swift, Connections among ice, runoff and atmospheric forcing in the Beaufort Gyre, Geophys. Res. Lett., 26, 2223-2226, 1999.Mackensen, A., H.-W. Hubberton, N. Scheele, and R. Schlitzer, Decoupling of delta13CSigma[CO2] and phosphate in recent Weddell Sea deep and bottom water: Implications for glacial Southern Ocean paleoceanography, Paleoceanography, 11, 203-215, 1996.Mackensen, A. Oxygen and carbon stable isotope tracers of Weddell Sea water masses: new data and some paleoceanographic implications, Deep-Sea Res, 48, 1401-1422, 2001.Meredith, M. P., K. E. Grose, E. L. McDonagh, K. J. Heywood, R. D. Frew, and P. F. Dennis, Distribution of oxygen isotopes in the water masses of Drake Passage and the South Atlantic, J. Geophys. Res., 1999.Meredith, M. P., K. J. Heywood, R. D. Frew, and P. F. Dennis, Formation and circulation of the water masses bewteen the Southern Indian Ocean and Antarctica: Results from delta18O, J. Mar. Res., 57, 449-470, 1999.Melling, H. and R.M. Moore, Modification of halocline source waters during freezing on the Beaufort Sea shelf: evidence from oxygen isotopes and dissolved nutrients, Cont. Shelf. Res., 15, 89-113, 1995.Merlivat, L., F. Pineau, and M. Javoy, Hydrothermal vent waters at 13°N on the East Pacific rise - Isotopic composition and gas concentration, Earth Planet. Sc. Lett., 84, 100-108, 1987.Mikalsen, G. and H. P. Sejrup, Oxygen Isotope Composition of Fjord and River Water in the Sognefjorden Drainage Area, Western Norway. Implications for Paleoclimate Studies, Estuarine, Coastal and Shelf Science, 50, 441-448, 2000.Mook, W. G., The oxygen-18 content of rivers, SCOPE, 52, 565-570, 1982.Moore, R. M., M. G. Lowings, and F. C. Tan, Geochemical profiles in the central Arctic Ocean; their relation to freezing and shallow circulation, J. Geophys. Res., 88, 2667-2674, 1983.Morimoto, M., O. Abe, H. Kayanne, N. Kurita, E. Matsumoto, and N. Yoshida, Salinity records for the 1997-98 El Niño from Western Pacific corals, Geophys. Res. Lett.,29, 10.1029/2001GL013521, 2002.Mueller-Lupp, T., H. Erlenkeuser and H. A. Bauch, Seasonal and interannual variability of Siberian river discharge in the Laptev Sea inferred from stable isotopes in modern bivalves, Boreas, 32, 292-303, 2003.Münchow, A., T. J. Weingartner, and L. W. Cooper, The summer hydrography and surface circulation of the East Siberian Shelf Sea, J. Phys. Oceanogr., 29, 2167-2182, 1999.Nikolayev, S. D., and D. P. Naydin, Some data on the isotopic composition on oxygen in the Sea of Azov waters, Oceanology, 16, 33-35, 1976.Nikolayev, V. I., and S. D. Nikolayev, Formation of the oxygen isotopic composition of waters of the White Sea basin, Water Resources, 14, 408-411, 1987.Oba, T., Paleoceanographic information obtained by isotopic measurement of individual foraminiferal specimens, in Asian Marine Geology, edited by P. Wang, Q. Lao, and Q. He, pp. 169-180, China Ocean Press, Beijing, 1988.Ostlund, H. G., and C. Grall, Arctic tritium: 1973-1991, Data Report 19, University of Miami, Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, Miami, Florida 33149, 1993.Ostlund, H. G., and G. Hut, Arctic Ocean water mass balance from isotope data, J. Geophys. Res., 89, 6373-6381, 1984.Ostlund, H. G., H. Craig, W. S. Broecker, and D. Spenser, GEOSECS Atlantic, Pacific and Indian Ocean expeditions: Shorebased Data and Graphics, vol. 7, Tech. rep., Nat. Sci. Found., Washington, D.C., 1987a.Ostlund, H. G., G. Possnert, and J. H. Swift, Ventilation rate of the deep Arctic Ocean from Carbon 14 data, J. Geophys. Res., 92, 3769-3777, 1987b.Picaut, J., M. Ioualalen, C. Menkes, T. Delacroix, and M. J. McPhaden, Mechanism of the zonal displacements of the Pacific Warm Pool: Implications for ENSO, Science, 274, 1486-1489, 1996.Pierre, C., The oxygen and carbon isotope distribution in the Mediterranean water masses, Mar. Geol., 153, 41-55, 1999.Pierre, C., C. Vergnaud-Grazzini, D. Thouron, and J.-F. Saliège, Compositions isotopiques de l'oxygène et du carbone des masses d'eau en Méditerranée, Mem. Soc. Geol. It., 36, 165-174, 1986.Pierre, C., C. Vergnaud-Grazzini, and J.-C. Faugeres, Oxygen and carbon stable isotope tracers of the water masses in the Central Brazil Basin, Deep Sea Res., 38, 597-606, 1991.Pierre, C., A. Vangriesheim, and E. Laube-Lenfant, Variability of water masses and of organic production-regeneration systems as related to eutrophic, mesotrophic, and oligotrophic conditions in the northeast Atlantic Ocean, J. Mar. Sci., 5, 159-170, 1994.Polyak, L., V. Stanovoy, and D. J. Lubinski, Stable isotopes in benthic foraminiferal calcite from a river-influenced Arctic marine environment, Kara and Pechora Seas, Paleoceanography, 18(1), 1003, doi:10.1029/2001PA000752, 2003Potter, J. R., and J. G. Paren, Interaction between ice shelf and ocean in George VI Sound, Antarctica, in Oceanology of the Antarctic continental shelf, edited by S. S. Jacobs, no. 43 in Antarctic Research Series, pp. 59-85, AGU, 1985.Punning, J.-M., R. Vaikmae, and S. Maekvi, Oxygen-18 variations in the Baltic Sea, Int. J. Radiat. Appl. Instrum. Part E: Nucl. Geophys., 5, 529-539, 1991.Risebrobakken, B, E. Jansen, C. Andersson, E. Mjelde and K. Hevroy, A high-resolution study of Holocene paleoclimatic and paleoceanographic changes in the Nordic Seas, Paleoceanography, 18, 1017, doi:10.1029/2002PA000764, 2003.Schmidt, M, R. Botz, P. Stoffers, T. Anders and G. Bohrmann, Oxygen isotopes in marine diatoms: A comparative study of analytical techniques and new results on the isotope composition of recent marine diatoms, Geophys. Chim. Acta, 67, 2275-2280, 1997.Schmidt, G. A., Forward modeling of carbonate proxy data from planktonic foraminifera using oxygen isotope tracers in a global ocean model, Paleoceanography, 14, 482-497, 1999.Schriber, G., U. Siegenthaler, and F. Muller, 18O and 3He results from the North Water, 1974. (Unknown journal)Shi-Ying, W., Oxygen isotope compositions of seawaters in the Huanghai (Yellow) Sea and the Bohai Sea, Scientia Sinica, Series B: Chemistry, Life Sciences, and Earth Sciences, 34, 327-337, 1991.Singh, A., Jani, R.A., Ramesh, R., Spatiotemporal variations of the d18O-salinity relation in the northern Indian Ocean, Deep-Sea Research Part I, 57, 1422-1431, 2010.Srivastava, R, R. Ramesh, S. Prakash, N. Anilkumar and M. Sudhakar, (2007), Spatial variation of oxygen isotopes and salinity in the Southern Indian Ocean, Geophys. Res. Lett., 34, doi:10.1029/2007GL031790.Stahl, W., and U. Rinow, Sauerstoffisotopenanalysen an Mittelmeerwaessern; Ein Beitrag zur Problematik von Palaeotemperaturbestimmungen, Meteor-Forschungsergebnisse. Reihe C: Geologie und Geophysik, 14, 55-59, 1973.Stenni B., D. Nichetto, P. Bregant, P. Scarazatto and A. Longinelli, The delta18O signal of the northward flow of Mediterranean waters in the Adriatic Sea, Oceanol. Acta, 18, 319-328, 1995.Surge, D., and K. C. Lohmann, Temporal and spatial differences in salinity and water chemistry in SW Florida estuaries: effects of human-impacted watersheds, Estuaries, 25, 393-408, 2002.Sutherland, D. A., R. S. Pickart, E. Peter Jones, K. Azetsu-Scott, A. Jane Eert, and J. Olafsson, Freshwater composition of the waters off southeast Greenland and their link to the Arctic Ocean, J. Geophys. Res., 114, C05020, doi:10.1029/2008JC004808. 2009.Swart, P. K., The oxygen and hydrogen isotopic composition of the Black Sea, Deep Sea Res., 38, suppl. 2, S761-S772, 1991.Tan, F. C., and P. M. Strain, The distribution of sea ice meltwater in the eastern Canadian Arctic, J. Geophys. Res., 85, 1925-1932, 1980.Tan, F. C., and P. M. Strain, Stable isotope studies in the Gulf of St. Lawrence, in Chemical Oceanography in the Gulf of St. Lawrence, edited by P. M. Strain, no. 220 in Canadian Bulletin of Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences, p. 190, 1988.Tan, F. C., and P. M. Strain, Sea ice and oxygen isotopes in Foxe Basin, Hudson Bay and Hudson Strait, Canada, J. Geophys. Res., 101, 20,869-20,876, 1996.Tan, F. C., D. Dryssen, and P. M. Strain, Sea-ice meltwater and excess alkalinity in the East Greenland Current, Oceanol. Acta., 6, 283-288, 1983.Van Donk, J., and G. Mathieu, Oxygen isotope compositions of formainifera and water samples from the Arctic Ocean, J. Geophys. Res., 74, 3396-3407, 1969.Vetshteyn, V. Y., G. A. Malyuk, and V. P. Rusanov, Oxygen-18 distribution in the central Arctic Basin, Oceanography, 14, 514-519, 1974.Watanabe,T., A. Winter and T. Oba, Seasonal changes in sea surface temperature and salinity during the Little Ice Age in the Caribbean Sea deduced from Mg/Ca and 18O/16O ratios in corals. Marine Geology, 173, 21-35, 2001Weiss, R. F., H. G. Ostlund, and H. Craig, Geochemical studies of the Weddell Sea, Deep Sea Res. A, 26, 1093-1120, 1979.Wellington, G. M., R. B. Dunbar, and G. Merlen, Calibration of stable oxygen isotope signatures in Galapagos corals, Paleoceanography, 11, 467-480, 1996.Weppernig, R., P. Schlosser, S. Khatiwala, and R. G. Fairbanks, Isotope data from Ice Station Weddell: Implications for deep water formation in the Weddell Sea, J. Geophys. Res., 101, 25,733-25,739, 1996.Yamamoto, M., N. Tanaka and S. Tsunogai. Okhotsk Sea intermediate water formation deduced from oxygen isotope systematics, J. Geophys. Res., 106, 31,075-31,084, 2001.Yamamoto, M., S. Watanabe, S. Tsunogai, and M. Wakatsuchi, Effects of sea ice formation and diapycnal mixing on the Okhotsk Sea Intermediate Water clarified with oxygen isotopes. Deep Sea Res., 49, 1165-1174, 2002.Yobbi, D. K. Effects of Tidal Stage and Ground-Water Levels on the Discharge and water quality of springs in coastal Citrus and Hernando Counties, Florida, Water Resources Investigations Report 92-4096, USGS, 1992.